#labels Featured
= iOS 4 Khmer Keyboard & Fonts Package =

<br>
== This wiki is describing the package content, that is provided on Cydia ==


<br>
http://sites.google.com/site/khmeriphone/root.jpg<br>

<br>
http://sites.google.com/site/khmeriphone/pref.jpg<br>



As for the package in 3.0.x, the new package for iOS4 is going to replace the Czech by Khmer.
<br>

*Preferences:*
The Preferences bundles is modified in order to show Khmer instead of Czech.<br>
The modification take place if your iPhone language is English or French<br>
<br>

*Fonts:*
All the fonts are located in a separate folder name *MyFonts.* <br>
   ABC and Limon fonts are installed for legacy web viewing <br>
   PhoneKeysCaps.ttf is used for the font keyboards. <br>
   arialuni.ttf is the font with khmer glyphs used previously in 3.0 and the new engine from Danh Hong. <br>
   CGFontCache.plist is modified to declare the new fonts <br>
<br>
   NB: arialuni.ttf is the Unicode font. It as the same characteristic as before. I could have used exactly the same font as before for this new package. But due to copyright issue, I had to change the AAT engine of the font and use the one from Danh Hong.<br>
   If u modify the package for personal purpose. Be very careful with PhoneKeysCaps.ttf. This font is used for the keyboard, and keyboard only. I do not recommend you to change PhoneKeyCaps.ttf.
<br>

*Keyboard:*
All the files xxxx.keyboard are defining the Khmer Keyboard.<br>
Keyboard-cs.plist is defining mainly the long push key, and few other things.<br>
InputModeProperties.plist is used in Preferences for the list of HW keyboard and SW keyboard. New in iOS4<br>

<br>
<br>

This above describe what will be changed in your iPhone iOS4 for you to have Khmer Fonts and Keyboard on your iPhone <br>
The new cydia repo address will come this week-end...