8 August 2009

This is my first package for you to be able to read or write Unicode khmer properly on your iPhone.
I do not speak or write Khmer, so if you email me, please email in English (or French as it is my native language).
I do not take any responsibilities if you mess up with your iPhone with those files. It is at your own risk.


Version 0.1: First Version
Version 0.2: Bug Fix: The keyboard selection when the selected language is Khmer was wrong. The keyboard could only be activated from English Language.


After replacing the files as explained below, you should have on your iPhone:

-Khmer Unicode with rendering
-Some old legacy font (ABC and Limon)
-You can select a Khmer Keyboard
-You can change your regional setting to Khmer
-You can change language to Khmer. (this will only be applied for the application title, as I'm not khmer I cannot translate all the applications menu. But feel free to do it and redistribute).


How to do:

I consider that your iPhone is already Jailbreak, if not the you can find example for iPhone 3G with Mac here : http://www.iclarified.com/entry/index.php?enid=4303

I consider that you know how to access your iPhone system files through SSH.
Example for windows with winscp: http://www.iclarified.com/entry/index.php?enid=3221
Example for Mac with Fugu: http://www.iclarified.com/entry/index.php?enid=2096


1 - Copy from the zip all the files to your iPhone

The zip directory architecture follow the one on the iPhone.
For example the file AdditionalLanguages.plist is located in the zip at

Khmer_iPhone_v0.1/Applications/Preferences.app/AdditionalLanguages.plist

copy it to 

/Applications/Preferences.app/AdditionalLanguages.plist


before copying the files, please rename the existing files  xxxx.bak 
example: rename the original AdditionalLanguages.plist to AdditionalLanguages.plist.bak

Like this in case of problem, just delete the new copied file and revert back the original name of the original file.


2- Reboot your iPhone



If you have problem, leave a comment on http://code.google.com/p/khmeriphone/ or contact fabkk2002@yahoo.com