= Khmer Sorting / Collation for iPhone 3.0.x =

===Available this week on Cydia - New 0.5 Upgrade ===

== Sort&Collation how to ... ==

Today, with the 0.4 version, the Khmer words are not properly sorted and cannot be easily search with the Index Bar (On the right).<br>
<br>
Example<br>

http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3516/3876862431_a750db7d1b_m.jpg<br>
<br>
After installing the new v0.5 the result is as picture below.<br>

http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3431/3877654908_7b9691b8a7_m.jpg<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
During the development of this new feature, there was discussions about the way of sorting the letters.<br>
After checking on different OS (Windows, Mac, Linux), and different programs, it has been noticed, that none of the program is sorting the Khmer letters the same way.<br>
<br>
For the iPhone I had 2 options.<br>
<br>
The Chuon Nath way or the Consonant+Independent Vowel way.<br>
<br>
It seems that today the Consonant+Independent Vowel is more widely used.<br>
So, this version is sorting the Consonant + Independent Vowel way.<br>
<br>
An example of Consonant + Independent Vowel order can be found at http://dict.ant.com.kh/dict/dictionaries/
<br><br>
With this version you can search easily your Contacts and Ipod items (Songs, Artists, ...).<br>
<br>
<br>
*NB: After downloading the new Cydia Update, you will need to switch back to English Language, and again to Khmer Language. <br>
I noticed that, the first time, it takes few seconds after for the sorting algorithm to be acknowledge by the iPhone.<br>*

As usual, Please do not hesitate to comment.